docs: add FAQ on TiDB X and Dedicated Projects, detailing changes and… (#22656)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidbx-instance-move-faq.md

---
title: Project Migration FAQ for TiDB X Instances
summary: Learn why TiDB Cloud prompts you to move or convert your {{{ .starter }}} and Essential resources, what changes during project migration, and what follow-up actions might be required.
---

# Project Migration FAQ for TiDB X Instances

> TiDB X instances are service-oriented TiDB Cloud offerings built on the [TiDB X architecture](/tidb-cloud/tidb-x-architecture.md), including {{{ .starter }}}, {{{ .essential }}}, and {{{ .premium }}} instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB X instances are service-oriented TiDB Cloud offerings built on the [TiDB X architecture](/tidb-cloud/tidb-x-architecture.md), including {{{ .starter }}} and {{{ .essential }}} instances.
```

This FAQ explains why the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) prompts you to move your {{{ .starter }}} and Essential instances to TiDB X projects, what changes occur during the migration process, and what follow-up actions you need to take.

> ## Why does the TiDB Cloud console prompt you to move your {{{ .starter }}} and Essential instances?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Why does the TiDB Cloud console prompt me to move my {{{ .starter }}} and Essential instances?
```

Before April 15, 2026, TiDB Cloud used a single **TiDB dedicated project** type to manage all TiDB Cloud resources. Such a project could contain a mix of {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters and TiDB X instances. However, mixing different resource types in one project increased management complexity because:

- TiDB dedicated projects were originally designed for {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters.
- TiDB X instances and {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters have different behaviors and management models.

Starting from April 15, 2026, TiDB Cloud introduces separate project types to provide clear separation between different resource types. Each project type now exclusively hosts its own resource type:

- **TiDB X project**: for TiDB X instances
- **TiDB dedicated project**: for {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters

> - **TiDB X virtual project**: for TiDB X instances not grouped in any TiDB X project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **TiDB dedicated project**: for {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters
- **TiDB X project**: for TiDB X instances
- **TiDB X virtual project**: for TiDB X instances not grouped in any TiDB X project
```

- The {{{ .starter }}} and Essential instances are moved to a newly created TiDB X project.
- The moved instances belong to a new project ID after the migration.
- Project-level RBAC permissions are copied to the new project.

What does not change after the migration:

- Your instance data.
- Your instance availability.
- Your instance performance.
- Your billing and usage.
- The underlying infrastructure of your instances.
- {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters remain in their current projects and are not moved.

There is no additional cost for this migration.

After the migration, you can manage your TiDB X instances through TiDB X projects (or at the organization level), and continue to manage your {{{ .dedicated }}} clusters through dedicated projects.

## What actions are required after migration?

If your {{{ .starter }}} or Essential instances are moved to a new TiDB X project, review anything that depends on the original project ID or original project-level setup, such as the following:

- Automation or scripts
- Integrations
- Project-based operational workflows
- User access and RBAC assignments
- Data Service setup
- Data Apps
- Data Service API keys

> Project-level RBAC permissions are copied to the new project, but you should still review access after migration to make sure users and workflows still work as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Project-level RBAC permissions are copied to the new project, but you must still review access after migration to make sure users and workflows still work as expected.
```

> If you use the TiDB Cloud API to manage your instances, see [OpenAPI Migration Guide for Starter and Essential](/tidbx-starter-essential-api-migration-guide.md) to update your API calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the TiDB Cloud API to manage your instances, see [TiDB Cloud API Migration Guide for {{{ .starter }}} and Essential](/tidbx-starter-essential-api-migration-guide.md) to update your API calls.
```

> If you use the TiDB Cloud API to manage your instances, see [TiDB Cloud API Migration Guide for {{{ .starter }}} and Essential](/tidbx-starter-essential-api-migration-guide.md) to update your API calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the TiDB Cloud API to manage your instances, see [TiDB Cloud API Migration Guide for {{{ .starter }}} and Essential](/tidb-cloud/tidbx-starter-essential-api-migration-guide.md) to update your API calls.
```

> If you use the TiDB Cloud API to manage your instances, see [TiDB Cloud API Migration Guide for {{{ .starter }}} and Essential](/tidb-cloud/tidbx-starter-essential-api-migration-guide.md) to update your API calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the TiDB Cloud API to manage your instances, see [Project API Migration Guide for {{{ .starter }}} and Essential](/tidb-cloud/tidbx-starter-essential-api-migration-guide.md) to update your API calls.
```
